                                                        Decentralized Consensus

Step 1: Independent verification of each transaction 
Transactions creation and verification process:
    1.Collecting UTXO
        Bitcoin full nodes track all available and spendable outputs, known as unspent transaction outputs, or UTXO.
    2.Providing the appropriate unlocking scripts
    3.Constructing new outputs assigned to a new owner
    4.Every bitcoin node that receives a transaction will verify the transaction.
    
Step2: Independent aggregation of transaction into candidate blocks
    1.Maintain a local copy of the blockchain.
    2.Listening for
        new transactions
        new blocks discovered by other nodes
    3.Collect, validate, and relay new transactions just like any other bitcoin node.
        After validating transactions, a bitcoin node will add them to the memory pool (transaction pool), where transactions await
        until they can be included into a candidate block.
    4.Trying to mine a new candidate block by finding a solution to the Proof-of-Work algorithm.
        A block is called a candidate block because
            It does not contain a valid Proof-of-Work and therefore, it is not yet a valid block
            
Step3: Independent verification of each block
    Process done by every node
        1.The node recieves newly solved blocks sent from the miners.
        2.The node validates the newly solved blocks.
            The block data structure is syntactically valid
            The block header hash is less than the target (enforces the Proof-of-Work)
            The block timestamp is less than two hours in the future (allowing for time errors)
            The block size is within acceptable limits
            The first transaction (and only the first) is a coinbase transaction
                A dishonest miner could write themselves a coinbase transaction for a thousand bitcoin instead of the correct reward.
                An invalid coinbase transaction would make the entire block invalid.
            All transactions within the block are independetly verified.
        3.The validated blocks are added to the blockchain.
            The honest miners of the solved blocks can spend their earned rewards.
            The dishonest miners will have their blocks rejected and
                lose the reward
                waste the effort expended to find a Proof-of-Work solution, thus incurring the cost of electricity without compensation.
        4.The node propagate the valid blocks.
        
Step4: Independent selection of BlockChain
    The final step in bitcoin’s decentralized consensus mechanism is
        1.the assembly of blocks into chains
        2.the selection of the chain with the most Proof-of-Work.
    Only the new blocks satisfiying validation criteria are maintained by every node:
        1.Main Blockchain: Those connected to the main blockchain
        2.Secondary Blockchain: Those that form branches off the main blockchain
        3.Orphan Blockcs: Those that do not have a known parent in the known chains
        
